README.md, before:

# linkedin-games

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c7d7c48-01db-40f8-aa06-ec2156c84417

A Firefox- and Chrome-compatible browser plugin to solve the daily LinkedIn Games puzzles. Currently supports (note: the links below open https://www.linkedin.com):

- [Queens](https://www.linkedin.com/games/queens/)
- [Zip](https://www.linkedin.com/games/zip/)
- [Tango](https://www.linkedin.com/games/tango/)

Stay tuned for more!

## Usage (Post-Installation)

Simply click the plugin's icon in your toolbar (you may want to pin the plugin for convenience) after starting a game, and hit the `Solve` button to cheat.

## Prerequisites

- `node`
- `npm`

Note that Manifest V3 APIs are used throughout this project's source code.

## Build Instructions

1. `npm install` (at least once, and on changes to `package*.json`)
2. `node build.js` (at least once, and on changes to `src`)

Potential gotchas:

- Unit tests are currently NOT automatically run during the `node build.js` step. See the following subsection for how to run these.
- To avoid needing to manually run `node build.js` all the time, a build server / watcher would be nice. Setting this up seemed like overkill for this simple of a plugin (read: I was lazy), but I'm open to PRs.

### Unit Test Execution Instructions

- `npm test` for every unit test except for one.

- `npm run test:slow` performs an involved test that validates the strategic Tango solver against a brute-force solver; both are supplied every possible line state (including invalid ones), of which there are $`3^{27}`$.

A CI/CD pipeline should run both.
A developer can get away with just the former unless they're making significant changes to `src/main/js/tango/line.js`.

## From-Source Browser Installation Instructions

### Firefox

Visit `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox` in your Firefox URL bar, then load a temporary extension via `firefox-dist/manifest.json`.

To ensure that source changes take place, make sure to run `node build.js`, then "Reload" the extension in the aforementioned link.

### Chrome

Visit `chrome://extensions/` in your Chrome URL bar. With `Developer mode` enabled, load an unpacked extension via `chrome-dist/`.

To ensure that source changes take place, make sure to run `node build.js`, then "Refresh" the extension in the aforementioned link.

## Solver Algorithm Overviews

### Queens

<details><summary>(Expand for overview)</summary>

The Queens solver uses a comically simple recursive, short-circuiting backtracking algorithm.

```
# Source code sorts by ascending order of cell count, but any order works.
colors := [color1, color2, ..., colorN]
placements := []
backtrack(0, placements)
# By this point, placements contains the desired result.

function backtrack(depth, colors, placements):
  if depth = boardLength:
    return True
  currentColor := colors[depth]
  for cell in currentColor's cells:
    if cell can be marked as a queen:
      mark cell and invalidate row/col/locale
      placements.push(cell)
      shortCircuit := backtrack(depth + 1, placements)
      unmark cell and restore row/col/locale
      if shortCircuit:
        return True
      else:
        placements.pop()
```

Some notes on how we determine queen placement validity:

- With color choice being one-to-one with recursion depth, we do not have to explicitly track color validity.
- The bookkeeping to track row/column validity is trivially handled via boolean array(s) or bitfields.
- For tracking locale validity (i.e. ensuring that all neighboring cells of a placed queen are marked as invalid), notice that row/column validity already handles everything but diagonal neighbors.
Thus, we simply tack on a per-cell counter that identifies how many already-placed queens diagonally touch this cell.
Any counter is at most 2, as in the following example (asterisk identifies a queen):

```
. . . . . . . . .
. . 0 0 0 0 0 . .
. . 1 0 1 0 0 . .
. . 0 * 0 0 0 . .
. . 1 0 2 0 1 . .
. . 0 0 0 * 0 . .
. . 0 0 1 0 1 . .
. . . . . . . . .
```

</details>

### Zip

<details><summary>(Expand for overview)</summary>

The Zip solver uses the exact same baseline algorithm as the one for Queens: try exploring in a depth-first manner while abiding by constraints all constraints and backtracking as needed, and short-circuit return whenever we achieve the required depth.
There are only two noteworthy mentions here:

- We perform the backtracking iteratively, with the help of a stack, rather than recursively.
- We add a cell degree based *path pruning* strategy atop the *explicit rules* (which are themselves few and really only forbid wall- or self-crossing paths); see the doc comments for `ZipGrid#canVisitUp` in [solver.js](./src/main/js/zip/solver.js) for a detailed explanation of the pruning strategy.

</details>

### Tango

<details><summary>(Expand for overview [warning: long!])</summary>

Backtracking trivially solves Tango, too--but brute-forcing isn't very satisfying, and we've already done it twice.
Given that LinkedIn promises the following:

- Each puzzle has **one right answer** and can be solved via deduction (you should **never have to make a guess**)

, we implement something more elegant.

#### `consolidateLine()`

Though LinkedIn's definition of a "guess" is not formally specified, we'll assume that we have following guarantee:

- **Invariant A:** For any provided puzzle with $`N`$ blank cells, there exists a sequence of moves $`[m_1, m_2, ..., m_N]`$ that solves the puzzle where each $`m_i`$ indicates the finalizing of some blank cell; furthermore, we can confidently make each $`m_i`$ at least as early as every $`m_{j>i}`$.

This at least gets us started toward a guess-free algorithm: iterate over every blank cell, check if we can confidently mark it, do so if we can, and repeat until no blank cells remain.
But this strategy wastes work; in the early stages of solving a puzzle, most blank cells cannot be marked, and we're checking all of them.
Furthermore, it's quite unbounded as to what the "check if we can confidently mark a blank cell" entails.

It's hard to proceed any further from here without additional assumptions.\*
However, official Tango puzzles seem to always have a stronger guarantee than the one we mentioned:

- **Invariant B:** In addition to Invariant A holding true, every $`m_i`$ can be made at the appropriate time by simply considering either the row or the column that contains it.

_\* Invariant B may always be provably true given Invariant A._
_If this is the case, then Invariant B is just a logical conclusion, not an additional assumption._
_Unfortunately, I lack the mathematical finesse to prove this relationship myself--any takers will be greatly welcome!._

If we assume that Invariant B is true, a far more practical strategy becomes possible.

**Observation:** If we treat all "lines" (rows and columns) in a vacuum, a blank cell in a line can be deduced _only if_ there is at least one other cell in the line.

This can be proven via contradiction: a line must have exactly one solution; if a line is blank, then both the intended solution and its complement (i.e. flip every Sun/Moon) will satisfy any equality/inequality constraints and the "no-triply-consecutive" requirement.

**Observation:** If a cell isn't currently solvable, then it definitely remains unsolvable unless either its containing row its containing column column receives an update.

#### Strategic Algorithm

Let's assume that we have a `consolidateLine(line)` method that accepts a line, marks every cell that can confidently be marked (including cells that can be marked given previous marks made in `consolidateLine`), then returns the changelist of cells.
The following algorithm provably solves an Invariant B type Tango grid while limiting the number of explored blank cells to only reasonable candidates (note: false positives are still very much possible):

```
lineQueue := [] # duplicate-free queue
for each mark-containing line (markedLine):
  lineQueue.offer(markedLine)

while lineQueue is not empty:
  line := lineQueue.poll()
  newMarkedCells := consolidateLine(line)
  for cell in newMarkedCells:
    perp := orthogonal to line that intersects at cell
    lineQueue.offer(perp)
```

Much better!
But how does one actually implement `consolidateLine`?
Well, one way to do it is exactly how most humans play the game: check for the presence of situations that generate guaranteed marks, and apply those marks.
Many such patterns are obvious (e.g. two consecutives of a mark imply the next is the other, or one mark touching an (in)equality determines its counterpart).
Some are quite cryptic (one that I have yet to see utilized in an official puzzle is how if the middle two cells of a line are connected by an equals, and one border cell is marked, then the other must have the other mark).

The logic in [tango/line.js](./src/main/js/tango/line.js) does this.
It has been [validated against all possible line arrangements alongside a brute-force backtracker](./src/test/js/tango/strategicExhaustiveEquivalence.slowtest.js).

#### Theoretically Optimal Algorithm

Astute readers may notice that if we're going by known patterns anyway, why not just maintain a lookup table of every possible line status that consolidates to nonempty?

There are `22748` incomplete lines such that least one move can be confidently made in the line.
By exploiting symmetry and operating on bits, we could very easily bring the size of the lookup table to dozens of kilobytes, and with some additional optimizations very possibly into single-digit kilobytes.
That's pretty small in some environments, but large enough to be suspicious for a simple browser extension that strives to be lightweight.

We don't necessarily have to throw everything away, however.
It turns out that there are only `1306` line combinations that both could eventually hope to bring about any solution, yet are completely _inconclusive_ in their current state.
A table seeded with these values could supplement our current algorithm to completely prevent enqueuing lines from which we're currently going to learn nothing.
We have chosen not to implement this since the check happens rather quickly anyway, but it does add a noteworthy elegance.

</details>

Commit message:

Various improvements to build system. (#23)
* Add watcher via chokidar.

* Support minification; remove leftover log.

* Remove unused parameter from function.

* Handle multiple icon sizes.

* Add ellipsis.

* Remove browser_specific_settings from Chrome manifest, as Chrome doesn't listen to it anyway.

* README update to account for build changes.

* Chrome doesn't like svg icons apparently.

* New version.

README.md, after:

# linkedin-games

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8c7d7c48-01db-40f8-aa06-ec2156c84417

A Firefox- and Chrome-compatible browser plugin to solve the daily LinkedIn Games puzzles. Currently supports (note: the links below open https://www.linkedin.com):

- [Queens](https://www.linkedin.com/games/queens/)
- [Zip](https://www.linkedin.com/games/zip/)
- [Tango](https://www.linkedin.com/games/tango/)

Stay tuned for more!

## Usage (Post-Installation)

Simply click the plugin's icon in your toolbar (you may want to pin the plugin for convenience) after starting a game, and hit the `Solve` button to cheat.

## Prerequisites

- `node`
- `npm`

Note that Manifest V3 APIs are used throughout this project's source code.

## Build Instructions

1. `npm install` (at least once, and on changes to `package*.json`)
2. `node build.js` (at least once, and on changes to `src`). There is an optional `--watch` flag that facilitates active development by rebuilding upon any changes to the `src/` directory. However, for your _browser_ to recognize changes, you still need reload/refresh the extension from your browser's add-on manager itself. See the [From-Source Browser Installation](#from-source-browser-installation-instructions) section for how to do this.

### Unit Test Execution Instructions

Note: these unit tests are currently NOT automatically run as part of the `node build.js` step.

- `npm test` for every unit test except for one.

- `npm run test:slow` performs an involved test that validates the strategic Tango solver against a brute-force solver; both are supplied every possible line state (including invalid ones), of which there are $`3^{27}`$.

A CI/CD pipeline should run both.
A developer can get away with just the former unless they're making significant changes to `src/main/js/tango/line.js`.

## From-Source Browser Installation Instructions

### Firefox

Visit `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox` in your Firefox URL bar, then load a temporary extension via `firefox-dist/manifest.json`.

To ensure that source changes take place, make sure to run `node build.js`, then "Reload" the extension in the aforementioned link.

### Chrome

Visit `chrome://extensions/` in your Chrome URL bar. With `Developer mode` enabled, load an unpacked extension via `chrome-dist/`.

To ensure that source changes take place, make sure to run `node build.js`, then "Refresh" the extension in the aforementioned link.

## Solver Algorithm Overviews

### Queens

<details><summary>(Expand for overview)</summary>

The Queens solver uses a comically simple recursive, short-circuiting backtracking algorithm.

```
# Source code sorts by ascending order of cell count, but any order works.
colors := [color1, color2, ..., colorN]
placements := []
backtrack(0, placements)
# By this point, placements contains the desired result.

function backtrack(depth, colors, placements):
  if depth = boardLength:
    return True
  currentColor := colors[depth]
  for cell in currentColor's cells:
    if cell can be marked as a queen:
      mark cell and invalidate row/col/locale
      placements.push(cell)
      shortCircuit := backtrack(depth + 1, placements)
      unmark cell and restore row/col/locale
      if shortCircuit:
        return True
      else:
        placements.pop()
```

Some notes on how we determine queen placement validity:

- With color choice being one-to-one with recursion depth, we do not have to explicitly track color validity.
- The bookkeeping to track row/column validity is trivially handled via boolean array(s) or bitfields.
- For tracking locale validity (i.e. ensuring that all neighboring cells of a placed queen are marked as invalid), notice that row/column validity already handles everything but diagonal neighbors.
Thus, we simply tack on a per-cell counter that identifies how many already-placed queens diagonally touch this cell.
Any counter is at most 2, as in the following example (asterisk identifies a queen):

```
. . . . . . . . .
. . 0 0 0 0 0 . .
. . 1 0 1 0 0 . .
. . 0 * 0 0 0 . .
. . 1 0 2 0 1 . .
. . 0 0 0 * 0 . .
. . 0 0 1 0 1 . .
. . . . . . . . .
```

</details>

### Zip

<details><summary>(Expand for overview)</summary>

The Zip solver uses the exact same baseline algorithm as the one for Queens: try exploring in a depth-first manner while abiding by constraints all constraints and backtracking as needed, and short-circuit return whenever we achieve the required depth.
There are only two noteworthy mentions here:

- We perform the backtracking iteratively, with the help of a stack, rather than recursively.
- We add a cell degree based *path pruning* strategy atop the *explicit rules* (which are themselves few and really only forbid wall- or self-crossing paths); see the doc comments for `ZipGrid#canVisitUp` in [solver.js](./src/main/js/zip/solver.js) for a detailed explanation of the pruning strategy.

</details>

### Tango

<details><summary>(Expand for overview [warning: long!])</summary>

Backtracking trivially solves Tango, too--but brute-forcing isn't very satisfying, and we've already done it twice.
Given that LinkedIn promises the following:

- Each puzzle has **one right answer** and can be solved via deduction (you should **never have to make a guess**)

, we implement something more elegant.

#### `consolidateLine()`

Though LinkedIn's definition of a "guess" is not formally specified, we'll assume that we have following guarantee:

- **Invariant A:** For any provided puzzle with $`N`$ blank cells, there exists a sequence of moves $`[m_1, m_2, ..., m_N]`$ that solves the puzzle where each $`m_i`$ indicates the finalizing of some blank cell; furthermore, we can confidently make each $`m_i`$ at least as early as every $`m_{j>i}`$.

This at least gets us started toward a guess-free algorithm: iterate over every blank cell, check if we can confidently mark it, do so if we can, and repeat until no blank cells remain.
But this strategy wastes work; in the early stages of solving a puzzle, most blank cells cannot be marked, and we're checking all of them.
Furthermore, it's quite unbounded as to what the "check if we can confidently mark a blank cell" entails.

It's hard to proceed any further from here without additional assumptions.\*
However, official Tango puzzles seem to always have a stronger guarantee than the one we mentioned:

- **Invariant B:** In addition to Invariant A holding true, every $`m_i`$ can be made at the appropriate time by simply considering either the row or the column that contains it.

_\* Invariant B may always be provably true given Invariant A._
_If this is the case, then Invariant B is just a logical conclusion, not an additional assumption._
_Unfortunately, I lack the mathematical finesse to prove this relationship myself--any takers will be greatly welcome!._

If we assume that Invariant B is true, a far more practical strategy becomes possible.

**Observation:** If we treat all "lines" (rows and columns) in a vacuum, a blank cell in a line can be deduced _only if_ there is at least one other cell in the line.

This can be proven via contradiction: a line must have exactly one solution; if a line is blank, then both the intended solution and its complement (i.e. flip every Sun/Moon) will satisfy any equality/inequality constraints and the "no-triply-consecutive" requirement.

**Observation:** If a cell isn't currently solvable, then it definitely remains unsolvable unless either its containing row its containing column column receives an update.

#### Strategic Algorithm

Let's assume that we have a `consolidateLine(line)` method that accepts a line, marks every cell that can confidently be marked (including cells that can be marked given previous marks made in `consolidateLine`), then returns the changelist of cells.
The following algorithm provably solves an Invariant B type Tango grid while limiting the number of explored blank cells to only reasonable candidates (note: false positives are still very much possible):

```
lineQueue := [] # duplicate-free queue
for each mark-containing line (markedLine):
  lineQueue.offer(markedLine)

while lineQueue is not empty:
  line := lineQueue.poll()
  newMarkedCells := consolidateLine(line)
  for cell in newMarkedCells:
    perp := orthogonal to line that intersects at cell
    lineQueue.offer(perp)
```

Much better!
But how does one actually implement `consolidateLine`?
Well, one way to do it is exactly how most humans play the game: check for the presence of situations that generate guaranteed marks, and apply those marks.
Many such patterns are obvious (e.g. two consecutives of a mark imply the next is the other, or one mark touching an (in)equality determines its counterpart).
Some are quite cryptic (one that I have yet to see utilized in an official puzzle is how if the middle two cells of a line are connected by an equals, and one border cell is marked, then the other must have the other mark).

The logic in [tango/line.js](./src/main/js/tango/line.js) does this.
It has been [validated against all possible line arrangements alongside a brute-force backtracker](./src/test/js/tango/strategicExhaustiveEquivalence.slowtest.js).

#### Theoretically Optimal Algorithm

Astute readers may notice that if we're going by known patterns anyway, why not just maintain a lookup table of every possible line status that consolidates to nonempty?

There are `22748` incomplete lines such that least one move can be confidently made in the line.
By exploiting symmetry and operating on bits, we could very easily bring the size of the lookup table to dozens of kilobytes, and with some additional optimizations very possibly into single-digit kilobytes.
That's pretty small in some environments, but large enough to be suspicious for a simple browser extension that strives to be lightweight.

We don't necessarily have to throw everything away, however.
It turns out that there are only `1306` line combinations that both could eventually hope to bring about any solution, yet are completely _inconclusive_ in their current state.
A table seeded with these values could supplement our current algorithm to completely prevent enqueuing lines from which we're currently going to learn nothing.
We have chosen not to implement this since the check happens rather quickly anyway, but it does add a noteworthy elegance.

</details>
